My name is Deborah Jones and today is the 23rd of April 2021 and we're at the Me Time
service in Flambustland. So Sam could you tell me your name?
My name is Samantha Bethan Lloyd.
Oh Bethan, that's a lovely name.
Thank you.
So this is part of the Flambustlany project, our Flambustland and I know you live outside
of Flambustland. Where do you live?
I live in Myford.
Myford, yeah. And I think that you've got some stories to tell about your voluntary
work, haven't you?
Yeah.
So what volunteering work have you done?
I've volunteered in a cattery. I've volunteered in Hope House. I've volunteered as well at
Paris Animal Welfare and that's it. And also I've been doing, I used to go to Paris Castle.
Alright, so you've actually done some really interesting jobs haven't you?
Yeah.
So tell me about the Paris, is it wildlife or animal?
Animal welfare.
Can you tell me a little bit about that?
Well the thing is like you volunteer, you do all the clothes, you iron them and put them
on the stall and then there's pictures of cats that need to be rehomed and all the money
goes to the animal charities and people just, loads of people come, like we've got the books
that you can get, different clothes, jewellery, everything you can think of in there. But
also we sort the stuff out and we do, infect all the toys and all the stuff.
So did you get stuff donated?
Yes.
And it was like a shop?
So did you have any, so you didn't have any animals there?
No, no, no.
So the money went to the various charities. That's brilliant, that's brilliant.
And so tell me a little bit about how you came to volunteer at Paris Castle.
Well since I was a little girl, I loved, I've been there a couple of times and growing up
I actually loved the castle. I thought there was something special about it but I couldn't
get my head around what it was. And I remember one day my nan taking me round and something
just clicked. And now I'm like, I'm getting older and once I moved to my food and then
some do-you-work that asked me if I'd like to go and volunteer there and if someone asked
me a question like that about any castle you wouldn't turn it down would you? So I went
and oh, it was just a dream come true. I remember just having a bit of tears in my eyes. I couldn't
believe that I was there. I never thought I was able to go to a place like that. And
sadly my nan's not around anymore and it was really hard for me not able to tell her. But
oh, I just loved the place. So what did you like? What really did you like about it? The
atmosphere of looking when people come around. Their faces. It's interesting to watch the
go to certain things they're not allowed to touch and there was one day where it was really
busy. I stepped in one room where it was like one room there, one room there and you have
to be in the middle and this woman was touching this and I said you mustn't touch that and
she just looked at me and I just didn't know what to do. So she was trying to tell everybody
else. So I went and ran over to somebody else to say I need help here. Oh was that, you
went and asked, who did you go and ask? One of the other volunteers because it was getting
a bit too much telling these people not to. And there was one time when you're not allowed
to take photos there and one of the people there said that everyone comes from walk of
life, different countries, different people come and this one person took a photo of me,
not like a phone, took a photo right in my face. How did that make you feel? Well I'm
not sure if I'm right or if I wanted to punch them but I was smiling, I was smiling, I was
smiling because my heat level was going up, up, up. And I said could you please not do
that please. Would you like to explain for people that are listening that openly you
have autism? Autism and Williams syndrome too. So to actually do what you did for volunteering
and being in contact with the public you must have found that really stressful at times.
Is there anything that helped with your stress levels? Well I would just tell them about
it, forget what, it doesn't matter what, just forget about it and just concentrate on what
you're doing with the people. Because if you don't do that and they ask you, it's
just, you know, you just lose it. So you've just got to try and, something like forget
about it and just concentrate on little things in the castle to explain to them. So did you
actually then, you were showing people around and explaining a little bit of the history,
some of the stories. Can you remember any of the stories? Because I haven't been to
the ice castles looking so hard. Well there's an interesting, very interesting story that
sends my shivers up my spine. That there's some ghost in one of the rooms and I think
it's the one on the top of the stairs as you go up, up and ramble around there. I was with
one of the volunteers and she was looking at me and I was looking at her and I was like,
hi, what are you doing there? You're not supposed to be there. And at that point it didn't register
in my mind that there was a ghost there. So she looked at me and she said, Samak, would
you like to go to another room? And I was like, well why is that person there when they're
not supposed to? I couldn't get my head around it. And then I went into another room and
like before the people even came and there was one bit where I was down the stairs. It
was called the ballroom room or it's lush with all the stuff, all the gold stuff. Everything
is just beautiful, the artwork, everything of it. And that was just stunning. It was
like a piece out of a movie it is right down there. And I don't know, I just stood there
and it was so quiet. And then I heard, and I thought I could hear people around but there
was nobody around. I thought that was strange. And then once we had a break she kindly, well
bravely explained to me that there was a ghost up the stairs. And you'd seen her? I'd seen
this man. And what can you describe him to me? He looked really, he had interesting a
gown on and like a little cap, like a little cap like them big ones but then was this interesting
thing. I thought, well that man was not supposed to be there. And it was like clear as day
he was right in front of me. I said, excuse me what are you doing here? And he totally
ignored me and I thought have I said something wrong? Am I being rude? Or is he being rude
because he's not speaking to me. I was like what the hell. That's a brilliant story. It
was just incredible. So you were a tour guide for the rooms for all the tourists coming
in. Yes. So did you do any other jobs at the castle? I didn't for a while because sadly
the volunteer's husband died so I didn't go back to the castle for a while. And then as
well a couple of months later I met Kat. Oh yeah Kat was there. Mum told me about it
so I thought, oh I said I couldn't get to stand again because I was so excited if I
was able to go back on it or what was happening. Anyway people don't tell me these days anymore.
And then when I went up there I spoke to Kat and she explained to me what I was doing about
the garden. Doing a bit of everything again going, it's like restarting everything. And
doing the garden was absolutely fun. I love looking around the garden. What's your favourite
bit of the garden? I would say all the different trees and the flowers because apparently they're
really hard to keep that remembered. I think it's the most important thing. I think it's
the trees and the flowers because apparently they're really hard to keep that momentum
what kind of structure they are because they're very old. It's a lot of work isn't it? It's
a lot of work to do because you've got to do exactly the same thing or they won't be
very happy. No. So you carried on doing, when you went back the second time, you carried
on doing the tour guide stuff did you? Yes. That came quite easily I would imagine because
you could remember some things. Yes. And did you work in the ticket office? Yes. What was
that like? I didn't enjoy that at all. Why not? Because people were a bit, I don't know
but not snotty but I don't know, impatient. These were the guests coming in I suppose
I think. They were a little bit cocky if I must say that. A little bit arrogant. Yeah.
And it's like excuse me I'm talking. They'd be rude. This woman wasn't very pleasant
and just smiled again. It's very difficult isn't it to keep your cool? So demanding.
It's like I'm not very good on mine. I am good at patience but sometimes starting to
get the layers of my temperament I explode. I don't mean to but I do. So you had to try
and keep yourself under control was that difficult? Yes because my face was hurting. With the
smiling? Yes. I wanted to do something and I was like no come on be professional. So
how did you get to, how did you travel? How did you travel to Paris Castle for my part?
I was very lucky because my mum picked me up and brought me back. Oh that was handy.
And also the other volunteer did the same thing as well so it was really nice. So do
you keep in contact with anybody from Trust Buddies or from the volunteering programme
from before? Yes I only one Christine because she lives in my village. Oh right. Yeah sadly
she lost her husband last night. He was really, he was funny. He did the same thing. And did
he? Yeah it was funny. He used to make me laugh. He told this one guy off before taking
photographs and for him it must be hard as well because he was really older and he knew
the business. He knows everything inside out. And there was one time when I was in my volunteer
and I was going into the bottom where the kitchen is and you've got this room, the pool
room I think it's called with them grotesque birds. Oh right. Is that near the staff room?
Yeah it's not far from there. And there was a guy that wasn't supposed to be, because
he was trying to tell us about the grotesque in the thing and he didn't want to leave.
And for me that was really frightening and my anxiety levels went. So I, because someone
came down because I was having a bit of a panic attack at that time because I thought
something bad, suddenly things were evaluating in my head that something bad was going to
happen. Yeah. And I didn't know what to do. I didn't know whether to, I don't have a twin
or anything so I couldn't just. Yeah. So the staff took me over the room and calmed me
down. And he left there to, just what he's never been back since because he got told
off once. Did he? Yeah. Good job too. Because I thought he was going to hurt somebody.
That's not a nice feeling to feel threatened is it and frightened when you're at work.
Because somebody told him to leave and you just wouldn't have it. No. So when you left
Trust Buddies, so how long were you working there before you left? The first time, how
long, well the first time you did your volunteering, that was for how long? A few months? Yeah,
a few months and then a few years on and off. On and off. Yeah. And how was the, how did
you find the training? Was it, did you find it difficult, easy? Did you find some bits
of it, you could learn better than others? Yeah there were some bits because some of
the words that you have to explain go over, that was a bit challenging but I was getting
excited because I thought oh this is going to be fun yet again. It must have been absolutely
brilliant for thinking from when you were a little girl and enjoying the castle because
I know you like history as well so it must have ticked so many bells. Oh it was just,
it was one of those moments in my life that I just cried a few tears because I said my
nan I'm going to polish all those antiques I remember telling her. Yeah my nan just laughed
and laughed because she knows how much I used to love going up, they went there all the time,
we had picnics, we had cakes, everything there, it was great fun and I thought one day I'm
going to be there and I did it, I thought wow. I had like shivers down my spine. So
did you do the same job with Trust Buddies when you were volunteering the last time?
Yes. It was just doing the tour guides was it? And also the gardener, and the ticket
office as well. Oh right, because they've got a coffee shop there didn't you? Yeah I
didn't do any of that. You didn't, that wasn't your cup of tea, excuse the pun. I didn't
think I could handle rude people. So what was your most favourite job there then? Oh
Jesus. Oh I can't choose, I like both. You like, yeah. But I didn't like the ticket office.
So you loved the gardens, working the gardens and helping people get the gardens ready.
Yeah. Because some people were lost in there, like I said, because I was in the garden,
I said go over there, go over there, da da da, and you'll be fine. Oh people getting
lost in the gardens and not knowing where they were. Yeah. Well Sam, I think that was
really interesting and thank you very much.